SLEP005: Outlier Rejection API (#15)
scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals: slep005/proposal.rst

.. _slep_005:

=============
Resampler API
=============

> :Author: Oliver Raush (oliverrausch99@gmail.com),

Reviewer: typo in name

         Christos Aridas (char@upatras.gr),
         Guillaume Lemaitre (g.lemaitre58@gmail.com)
:Status: Draft
:Type: Standards Track
:Created: created on, in 2019-03-01
:Resolution: <url>

Abstract
--------

We propose the inclusion of a new type of estimator: resampler. The
resampler will change the samples in ``X`` and ``y``. In short:

> * resamplers will reduce or augment the number of samples in ``X`` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* resamplers are able to reduce or augment the number of samples in ``X`` and
```
more specifically, their method is different because it does not require correspondence between input and output samples. At fit time.

Reviewer 2: I think "input" and "output" are not good words. I thought you meant ``X`` and ``y`` for a second ;)

Is this the real difference? I guess that would be forbidden by the common tests right now. Maybe there are two main points: the number of samples returned can change, and it returns X and y?

I remember people talking about using Birch for replacing samples by cluster centers. Birch is also a transformer. The pipeline wouldn't know what to do when something is a transformer and a resampler, right? So they must be exclusive? That's also a new concept. We don't have any exclusive features, I think, i.e. we don't *really* have types of estimators, any estimator can have any method right now, but not after this SLEP.
I guess that's discussed somewhat below, but maybe should be made more explicitly?

  ``y``;
* ``Pipeline`` should treat them as a separate type of estimator.

Motivation
----------

Sample reduction or augmentation are part of machine-learning
pipeline. The current scikit-learn API does not offer support for such
use cases.

Two possible use cases are currently reported:

* sample rebalancing to correct bias toward class with large cardinality;

> * outlier rejection to fit a clean dataset.

Reviewer 2: Is outlier rejection for data cleaning actually a use-case? Can you point to a reference where someone used this? I have never heard of anyone using this as preprocessing and it strikes me as a bad idea.

Reviewer 2: Another use-case that I think is much more common is data augmentation. It's maybe not as common with the kind of data typical for sklearn but it's still a very common practice in ML.

>    

Reviewer: You should mention sample reduction e.g. representation of a dataset by its kmeans centroids.

I also note that the former two cases can be handled merely by the ability to modify sample_weight in a Pipeline.

Reviewer 2: I think mentioning this in the alternative implementations is enough.

Implementation

> --------------

Reviewer 2: I think it should be noted that the required changes are mostly (exclusively?) to ``Pipeline``.
Is anything else affected? Some other meta-estimators?

And of course our API and contract changes. But the implementation is all contained within the pipeline and the resamplers?

Reviewer 3: Yes, changes are limited to new resamplers and the composition implementation (So either `Pipeline` or `ResampledTrainer`). I've also had to make several changes to existing estimator checks since many of them assumed that the estimator implements fit.

> To handle outlier rejector in ``Pipeline``, we enforce the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To handle resampling in ``Pipeline``, we enforce the following:
```

* an estimator cannot implement both ``fit_resample(X, y)`` and
  ``fit_transform(X)`` / ``transform(X)``. If both are implemented,
  ``Pipeline`` will not be able to know which of the two methods to
  call.

> * resamplers are only applied during ``fit``. Otherwise, scoring will

Reviewer: Change "Otherwise scoring will be harder" to something like "It is necessary to maintain correspondence of input and output samples for prediction and transformation at test time, but not when training."

  be harder. Specifically, the pipeline will act as follows:
  
  ===================== ================================
  Method                Resamplers applied               
  ===================== ================================
  ``fit``               Yes

>   ``fit_transform``     Yes

Reviewer: It can't. The sample correspondence will be violated. It must raise an error as does `fit_predict`.

Reviewer 3: There was some more discussion on this in https://github.com/scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals/pull/15#issuecomment-469206626. I agree that raising an error seems like the best option.

Reviewer: Most consistent is to define fit_transform as applying fit and then transform. Maybe it's just not entirely clear what "yes" in this table means. The samples output by fit_transform must correspond to the input, they cannot be resampled

Reviewer 3: I dislike defining `fit_transform` as  `.fit(X, y).transform(X,y)` because of the hidden overhead of going through the pipeline twice. Imagine you have a very slow pipeline, and now you add a resampler to the beginning. Your pipeline is now potentially much slower, and it's not clear why.

If calling `fit_transform` throws an error, perhaps the error message could say something like:

Calling fit_transform on a pipeline containing resamplers is not supported. You may want to call fit and transform separately.

Reviewer 2: > I dislike defining fit_transform as .fit(X, y).transform(X,y) because of the hidden overhead of going through the pipeline twice

I think @jnothman point is that it should be equivalent to ``.fit(X, y).transform(X)`` up to numerical issues, not that it should be implemented like that. Btw, you have a ``y`` in your transform that shouldn't be there ;)

Reviewer 2: Ok I'm pretty convinced now that this should be "not supported" and we should explain below why.

>   ``fit_resample``      Yes

Reviewer 2: Can someone give me an example where a pipeline is used as a resampler? Can we just not have a pipeline have that and get rid of the fit_transform/fit.transform issue?

Reviewer 2: What's an example where we need a pipeline to provide ``fit_resample``?

>   ``transform``         No

Reviewer: If a Pipeline provides `fit_resample` by virtue of including a resampler, and if "an estimator cannot implement both ``fit_resample(X, y)`` and ``fit_transform(X)`` / ``transform(X)``", then a resampling Pipeline cannot provide `transform`. To avoid this contradiction, I am okay to allow an estimator to provide `fit_resample` and `transform`, but not `fit_transform`; and a pipeline containing this resampler should call `fit_resample(X_train)` and `transform(X_test)`.

Reviewer: Now I remember one of the reasons we cannot support `transform`: resampling cannot be part of a FeatureUnion or similar. I am okay with that constraint.

Reviewer: > Now I remember one of the reasons we cannot support transform: resampling cannot be part of a FeatureUnion or similar.

Wait, no, as long as `.fit(X).transform(X)` is used, it should be fine.

Reviewer 2: Sorry I lost you lol.

  ``predict``           No
  ``score``             No
  ``fit_predict``       not supported 
  ===================== ================================

* ``fit_predict(X)`` (i.e., clustering methods) should not be called

>   if an outlier rejector is in the pipeline. The output will be of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  if a resampler is in the pipeline. The output will be of
```

Reviewer 2: This is weird because we allow ``fit().predict()`` and this seems a bit arbitrary.
Can you give an example of this breaking?

  different size than ``X`` breaking metric computation.

> * in a supervised scheme, resampler will need to validate which type

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this bullet and the second sentence doesn't parse.

  of target is passed. Up to our knowledge, supervised are used for
  binary and multiclass classification.
  
Alternative implementation
..........................

Alternatively ``sample_weight`` could be used as a placeholder to
perform resampling. However, the current limitations are:

* ``sample_weight`` is not available for all estimators;

> * ``sample_weight`` will implement only sample reductions;

Reviewer: sample reductions -> simple resampling

Reviewer: "Sample reduction" can involve identifying prototypes, e.g. kmeans centroids, not present in the original dataset. `sample_weight` cannot facilitate this.

> * ``sample_weight`` can be applied at both fit and predict time;

Reviewer: not sure about this...

Reviewer 2: Yeah we don't allow it being passed to ``predict`` right now, right?

I think the main limitation is that estimators can't produce sample weights, so there is no way to actually implement this in a pipeline right now without adding a new method, right?

Also I think runtime is a major issue for highly imbalanced datasets. If I have 1000:1 imbalance there will be a big runtime difference between using balanced random forests and random forests with sample weights.

* ``sample_weight`` need to be passed and modified within a
  ``Pipeline``.

>   

Reviewer: Like everything, a meta-estimator could be implemented providing this functionality. However this is difficult to use, unintuitive, and would have to implement all methods and attributes appropriate to the contexts where this may be used (regression, decomposition, etc)

Reviewer 2: It might be illustrative to give a common pipeline with a meta-estimator and a pipeline approach?
Are there use cases where the resampler is not the first step in the pipeline?

Current implementation
......................

> * Outlier rejection are implemented in:

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't we link to imbalance-learn? What are the differences between this proposal and imbalance-learn if any?

  https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/13269
  
Backward compatibility
----------------------

There is no backward incompatibilities with the current API.

Discussion
----------

> * https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/13269{

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/13269
```

.. _slep_005:

=============
Resampler API
=============

:Author: Oliver Rausch (oliverrausch99@gmail.com),
         Christos Aridas (char@upatras.gr),
         Guillaume Lemaitre (g.lemaitre58@gmail.com)
:Status: Draft
:Created: created on, in 2019-03-01
:Resolution: <url>

Abstract
--------

We propose the inclusion of a new type of estimator: resampler. The
resampler will change the samples in ``X`` and ``y`` and return both
``Xt`` and ``yt``. In short:

* a new verb/method that all resamplers must implement is introduced:
  ``fit_resample``.
* resamplers are able to reduce and/or augment the number of samples in
  ``X`` and ``y`` during ``fit``, but will perform no changes during
  ``predict``.
* to facilitate this behavior a new meta-estimator (``ResampledTrainer``) that
  allows for the composition of resamplers and estimators is proposed.
  Alternatively we propose changes to ``Pipeline`` that also enable similar
  compositions.

Motivation
----------

Sample reduction or augmentation are common parts of machine-learning
pipelines. The current scikit-learn API does not offer support for such
use cases.

Possible Usecases
.................

> * Sample rebalancing to correct bias toward class with large cardinality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Sample rebalancing to correct bias toward class with large cardinality.
```

>   outlier rejection to fit a clean dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Outlier rejection to fit a clean dataset.
```

* Sample reduction e.g. representing a dataset by its k-means centroids.
* Currently semi-supervised learning is not supported by scoring-based
  functions like ``cross_val_score``, ``GridSearchCV`` or ``validation_curve``
  since the scorers will regard "unlabeled" as a separate class. A resampler
  could add the unlabeled samples to the dataset during fit time to solve this
  (note that this could also be solved by a new cv splitter).
* NaNRejector (drop all samples that contain nan).
* Dataset augmentation (like is commonly done in DL).

Implementation
--------------

API and Constraints
...................

* Resamplers implement a method ``fit_resample(X, y, **kwargs)``, a pure function which
  returns ``Xt, yt, kwargs`` corresponding to the resampled dataset, where
  samples may have been added and/or removed.

> * An estimator may only implement either ``fit_transform`` or ``fit_resample``.

Reviewer: This is only a constraint if we enable support in Pipelines. So it's really a constraint about how Pipelines might interact with resamplers.

* Resamplers may not change the order, meaning, dtype or format of features
  (this is left to transformers).

> * Resamplers should also resample any kwargs.

Reviewer: (They can potentially do other things with kwargs, like generate them anew, or consume them)

predict
~~~~~~~
* head for resamplers: ``Xt = X``
* head for transformers: ``Xt = est.transform(X)``
* tail for predictors: ``return est.predict(X)``
* tail for transformers and resamplers: ``error``

transform
~~~~~~~~~
* head for resamplers: ``Xt = X``
* head for transformers: ``Xt = est.transform(X)``
* tail for predictors and resamplers: ``error``
* tail for transformers: ``return est.transform(X)``

score
~~~~~
* see predict

Example Usage:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: python

    est = make_pipeline(RandomUnderSampler(), SVC())
    est = make_pipeline(StandardScaler(), Birch(), SelectKBest(), SVC())
    est = make_pipeline(
        RandomUnderSampler(), StandardScaler(), SelectKBest(), SVC()
    )
    est = make_pipeline(
        NaNRejector(), RandomUnderSampler(), StandardScaler(), SGDClassifer()
    )

Alternative implementation
..........................

Alternatively ``sample_weight`` could be used as a placeholder to
perform resampling. However, the current limitations are:

* ``sample_weight`` is not available for all estimators;
* ``sample_weight`` will implement only simple resampling (only when resampling
  uses original samples);

> * ``sample_weight`` need to be passed and modified within a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``sample_weight`` needs to be passed and modified within a
```

>   ``Pipeline``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ``Pipeline``, which isn't possible without something like resamplers.
```

   resampler, it rather needs to fit the ``Pipeline`` excluding the last step,
   then transform the original training data until the last step, then
   ``fit_transform`` the last step. This means special code paths for pipelines
   containing resamplers; the effect of the resampler is not localised in terms
   of code maintenance.
2. As a result of issue 1, appending a step to the transformation ``Pipeline``
   means that the transformer which was previously last, and previously trained
   on the full dataset, will now be trained on the resampled dataset.
3. As a result of issue 1, the last step cannot be ``'passthrough'`` as in
   other transformer pipelines.

For this reason, it may be best to disable ``fit_transform`` and ``transform``
on the Pipeline. A resampling ``Pipeline`` would therefore not be usable as a
transformation within a ``FeatureUnion`` or ``ColumnTransformer``. Thus the
``ResampledTrainer`` would be strictly more expressive than a resampling
``Pipeline``.

.. rubric:: Handling ``fit`` parameters

Sample props or weights cannot be routed to steps downstream of a resampler in
a ``Pipeline``, unless they too are resampled. It's very unclear how this would

> work with ``Pipeline``'s current prefix-based fit parameter routing.

Author: Resampling all step props or weights when encountering a resampler within a `Pipeline` could be done. Then, the resampled `fit_params_steps` can be given to the step estimator, isn't it?

Reviewer: So if you've got `make_pipeline(Oversample(), LogisticRegression()).fit(X, y, logisticregression__sample_weight=weight)` then `logisticregression__sample_weight` would need to be passed to `Oversample().fit_resample`, and it would have to return something which still had the name `logisticregression__sample_weight` in it. I suppose this is okay.

Author: It is what I have in mind because we first introspect these `fit_params` and store them in `fit_params_steps`.

However, I wonder if there are some use cases for which resampling `sample_weight` will be surprising. In other words, if one would have weighted samples in a particular manner which is valid for the entire set but that after resampling the resulting weights are not meaningful anymore.

Reviewer: Well considering a basic resampler, I think replicating or deleting a prop with its sample seems reasonable. This is obviously not straightforward for kmeans-based sample reduction. But if the resampler *uses* the weights, that's different again. I'm now thinking the resampler signature should be:
```
def fit_resample(self, X, y=None, props_to_resample=None, **props_to_use_in_fitting)
```

Any props needed downstream in the pipeline must be passed as `props_to_resample` while sample-wise data that affects the resampling should be passed as kwargs like elsewhere.

Reviewer: I opened https://github.com/glemaitre/enhancement_proposals/pull/3 to address this issue in the SLEP

.. _slep_005:

=============
Resampler API
=============

:Author: Oliver Rausch (oliverrausch99@gmail.com),
         Christos Aridas (char@upatras.gr),
         Guillaume Lemaitre (g.lemaitre58@gmail.com)
:Status: Draft
:Created: created on, in 2019-03-01
:Resolution: <url>

Abstract
--------

We propose the inclusion of a new type of estimator: resampler. The
resampler will change the samples in ``X`` and ``y`` and return both
``Xt`` and ``yt``. In short:

* a new verb/method that all resamplers must implement is introduced:
  ``fit_resample``.
* resamplers are able to reduce and/or augment the number of samples in
  ``X`` and ``y`` during ``fit``, but will perform no changes during

>   ``predict``.

Reviewer 3: Yes, this refers to the composed estimators

>   ``predict``.

Reviewer 5: It seems that the term resampler is used throughout the SLEP  to refer both to the meta estimator and to the actual resampler object.

This is quite confusing to me.

* to facilitate this behavior a new meta-estimator (``ResampledTrainer``) that
  allows for the composition of resamplers and estimators is proposed.
  Alternatively we propose changes to ``Pipeline`` that also enable similar
  compositions.

Motivation
----------

Sample reduction or augmentation are common parts of machine-learning
pipelines. The current scikit-learn API does not offer support for such
use cases.

Possible Usecases
.................

* Sample rebalancing to correct bias toward class with large cardinality.
* Outlier rejection to fit a clean dataset.
* Sample reduction e.g. representing a dataset by its k-means centroids.
* Currently semi-supervised learning is not supported by scoring-based
  functions like ``cross_val_score``, ``GridSearchCV`` or ``validation_curve``
  since the scorers will regard "unlabeled" as a separate class. A resampler
  could add the unlabeled samples to the dataset during fit time to solve this
  (note that this could also be solved by a new cv splitter).
* NaNRejector (drop all samples that contain nan).
* Dataset augmentation (like is commonly done in DL).

Implementation
--------------

API and Constraints
...................

> * Resamplers implement a method ``fit_resample(X, y, **kwargs)``, a pure

Reviewer 6: Ok. This should be added to the SLEP.

> * Resamplers implement a method ``fit_resample(X, y, **kwargs)``, a pure

Reviewer: Indeed, we could decide to not implement kwarg resampling for now, and just reserve a third output item for when we do (because we know it should be possible to do, and to allow a resampler to *generate* sample weights)...

> * Resamplers implement a method ``fit_resample(X, y, **kwargs)``, a pure

Author: so `fit_resample(X, y, sample_weight=None)`?

> * Resamplers implement a method ``fit_resample(X, y, **kwargs)``, a pure

Reviewer: Well even there is ambiguous whether sample_weight should be resampled and returned, or whether it should be used when fitting, or both. If we make it clear that sample-aligned kwargs like sample_weight are *not* to be resampled and returned by default, I think that's fine.

  function which returns ``Xt, yt, kwargs`` corresponding to the resampled
  dataset, where samples may have been added and/or removed.
* An estimator may only implement either ``fit_transform`` or ``fit_resample``
  if support for ``Resamplers`` in ``Pipeline`` is enabled
  (see Sect. "Limitations").
* Resamplers may not change the order, meaning, dtype or format of features
  (this is left to transformers).

> * Resamplers should also handled (e.g. resample, generate anew, etc.) any

Reviewer 3: Imagine you pass sample weights into a composed estimator containing a resampler and a predictor. If the resampler adds or removes samples, resampler must now also add or remove rows in the sample_weights so that the shape matches.

  kwargs.

Composition
-----------

A key part of the proposal is the introduction of a way of composing resamplers
with predictors. We present two options: ``ResampledTrainer`` and modifications
to ``Pipeline``.

> Alternative 1: ResampledTrainer

Reviewer 3: Yes it is stateless. I guess this is mainly because we originally wanted these resamplers to work with pipelines, and the most natural realisation of this is that the resampler is an estimator

> Alternative 1: ResampledTrainer

Reviewer 2: Yes, but for Alternative 1 there's really no reason any more and it just adds complexity, right?

> Alternative 1: ResampledTrainer

Reviewer 3: Yes, with this proposal there is no reason. Perhaps its good to note that there may actually be useful stateful resamplers (e.g. consider fitting SMOTE on your whole dataset, and then oversampling batches of that dataset on the fly) but we exclude these in this proposal due to the added complexity this would introduce.

...............................

This metaestimator composes a resampler and a predictor. It
behaves as follows:

* ``fit(X, y)``: resample ``X, y`` with the resampler, then fit the predictor
  on the resampled dataset.
* ``predict(X)``: simply predict on ``X`` with the predictor.
* ``score(X)``: simply score on ``X`` with the predictor.

See PR #13269 for an implementation.

One benefit of the ``ResampledTrainer`` is that it does not stop the resampler

> having other methods, such as ``transform``, as it is clear that the

Reviewer 3: In terms of API resamplers do not have `transform`. What this means is that you can have transformers that are also resamplers.

> having other methods, such as ``transform``, as it is clear that the

Reviewer 2: fair, can you add that to the document?

> having other methods, such as ``transform``, as it is clear that the

Reviewer 5: Here again this is using the term "resampler" to refer to the meta estimator. That's confusing.

> we have a pipeline containing both a resampler and a transformer, we would probably like to have methods to do both of those things.

You mean `pipe = make_pipeline(MyResampler(), OneHotEncoder())`?

While `pipe.transform()` seems clear, I don't understand what `pipe.fit_reasample()` would do?

> having other methods, such as ``transform``, as it is clear that the

Reviewer 3: >  That's confusing

Agreed, I will have another look.

I would implement `fit_resample(X, y)` as:
``` onehotencoder.fit(myresampler.fit_resample(X, y)).transform(X, y)```

> having other methods, such as ``transform``, as it is clear that the

Reviewer 5: I thought `fit_resample` was only available for the resampler objects? The meta estimators (`Resampledtrainer` or `Pipeline`) aren't resamplers

> having other methods, such as ``transform``, as it is clear that the

Reviewer 3: > I thought `fit_resample` was only available for the resampler objects?
This is correct. The question is whether it is possible/useful/a good idea to make the metaestimators resamplers.

> having other methods, such as ``transform``, as it is clear that the

Reviewer 5: OK. I think the problems should be framed is those exact terms in the SLEP then, that sounds clearer and more explicit to me

> having other methods, such as ``transform``, as it is clear that the

Reviewer 2: I agree that should be clearer, and I don't see a reason to do that.

> having other methods, such as ``transform``, as it is clear that the

Reviewer 3: This was discussed in https://github.com/scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals/pull/15/files#r327687961

``ResampledTrainer`` will only call ``fit_resample``.

There are complications around supporting ``fit_transform``, ``fit_predict``
and ``fit_resample`` methods in ``ResampledTrainer``. ``fit_transform`` support
is only possible by implementing ``fit_transform(X, y)`` as ``fit(X,

> y).transform(X)``, rather than calling ``fit_transform`` of the predictor.

Reviewer 3: `fit_transform` should be equivalent to `fit(...).transform(...)`. However, calling this method may change the amount of samples in the input, which transformers are not allowed to do.

> y).transform(X)``, rather than calling ``fit_transform`` of the predictor.

Reviewer 5: > may change the amount of samples in the output, which transformers are not allowed to do.

I don't understand, that `ResampledTrainer` is not a transformer, it's a 2-step pipeline-like object where the first step is a resampler and the last step is a transformer. I don't  see why it should have the same constraints as the transformers?

> y).transform(X)``, rather than calling ``fit_transform`` of the predictor.

Reviewer 3: I would argue that as soon as you implement `transform`, you should be bound by the API constraints of a transformer. Anything else would:
a) be rather unintuitive to users
b) make your object incompatible with the rest of sklearn

> y).transform(X)``, rather than calling ``fit_transform`` of the predictor.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I agree with @orausch. If it's not a transformer what else would it be if it implements ``transform``?

``fit_predict`` would have to behave similarly.  Thus ``ResampledTrainer``

> would not work with non-inductive estimators (TSNE, AgglomerativeClustering,

Reviewer 3: See https://github.com/scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals/pull/15/files#r327677304

etc.) as their final step.  If the predictor of a ``ResampledTrainer`` is

> itself a resampler, it's unclear how ``ResampledTrainer.fit_resample`` should

Reviewer 2: With this proposal, what's the recommended way to chain two resamplers? Nest the ResampledTrainers? Then we run into defining ``ResampledTrainer.fit_resample``, right? Are there other ways to do it?

Reviewer 2: Ah, just saw below how it's done. Then there's no need to define ``ResampledTrainer.fit_resample`` is there?

behave.  These caveats also apply to the Pipeline modification below.

Example Usage:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: python

    est = ResampledTrainer(RandomUnderSampler(), SVC())
    est = make_pipeline(
        StandardScaler(),
        ResampledTrainer(Birch(), make_pipeline(SelectKBest(), SVC()))
    )
    est = ResampledTrainer(
        RandomUnderSampler(),
        make_pipeline(StandardScaler(), SelectKBest(), SVC()),
    )
    clf = ResampledTrainer(

>         NaNRejector(), # removes samples containing NaN

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure how this is gonna work, as in, what does the `transform` of this method actually do?

        ResampledTrainer(RandomUnderSampler(),
            make_pipeline(StandardScaler(), SGDClassifier()))
    )

Alternative 2: Prediction Pipeline
..................................

As an alternative to ``ResampledTrainer``, ``Pipeline`` can be modified to
accomodate resamplers.  The essence of the operation is this: one or more steps
of the pipeline may be a resampler. When fitting the Pipeline, ``fit_resample``
will be called on each resampler instead of ``fit_transform``, and the output
of ``fit_resample`` will be used in place of the original ``X``, ``y``, etc.,
to fit the subsequent step (and so on).  When predicting in the Pipeline,
the resampler will act as a passthrough step.

Limitations
~~~~~~~~~~~

.. rubric:: Prohibiting ``transform`` on resamplers

It may be problematic for a resampler to provide ``transform`` if ``Pipeline``s
support resampling:

1. It is unclear what to do at test time if a resampler has a transform

>    method.

Reviewer 7: Maybe add `(as discussed in details below)` (or ref the next section in some other way) because while reading this sentence it's somewhat unclear why it is the case

Reviewer 2: I think just calling ``transform`` would be fine.

> 2. Adding ``fit_resample`` to the API of an an existing transformer may

Reviewer 3: See https://github.com/scikit-learn/enhancement_proposals/pull/15/files#r327687961

   drastically change its behaviour in a ``Pipeline``.

For this reason, it may be best to reject resamplers supporting ``transform``

> from being used in a Pipeline.

Reviewer 4: also to reject it in common estimator checks?

Reviewer 7: If `fit_transform` becomes part of the official API, IMO it should be enforced by estimator checks.

Reviewer 2: Honestly I don't follow this any more after thinking about it for some time. This is supported in several other frameworks without any issue.

.. rubric:: Prohibiting ``transform`` on resampling Pipelines

> Providing a ``transform`` method on a Pipeline that contains a resampler

Reviewer 5: what does it mean to provide a transform method on a pipeline?? Is it a pipeline where the last step is a transformer?

Reviewer 5: So let's use the latter formulation please :)

Reviewer 2: Well I guess the sentence should be "Providing a ``transform`` method on a Pipeline that contains a resampler when the last step is a transformer presents several problems"

presents several problems:

> 1. A resampling ``Pipeline`` needs to use a special code path for

Reviewer 5: Sorry I really don't understand this whole part

Where is the resampler in the pipeline? Why should the last step be excluded?

   ``fit_transform`` that would call ``fit(X, y, **kw).transform(X)`` on the
   ``Pipeline``.  Ordinarily a ``Pipeline`` would pass the transformed data to
   ``fit_transform`` of the left step. If the ``Pipeline`` contains a

>    resampler, it rather needs to fit the ``Pipeline`` excluding the last step,

Reviewer 2: Same explanation as above, calling ``Pipeline.fit_transform`` is not allowed to change the number of samples, so we can't just resample and call ``fit_transform``. But that should be explained here.

   containing resamplers; the effect of the resampler is not localised in terms
   of code maintenance.
2. As a result of issue 1, appending a step to the transformation ``Pipeline``
   means that the transformer which was previously last, and previously trained
   on the full dataset, will now be trained on the resampled dataset.
3. As a result of issue 1, the last step cannot be ``'passthrough'`` as in
   other transformer pipelines.

For this reason, it may be best to disable ``fit_transform`` and ``transform``
on the Pipeline. A resampling ``Pipeline`` would therefore not be usable as a
transformation within a ``FeatureUnion`` or ``ColumnTransformer``. Thus the
``ResampledTrainer`` would be strictly more expressive than a resampling
``Pipeline``.

.. rubric:: Handling ``fit`` parameters

Sample props or weights cannot be routed to steps downstream of a resampler in
a Pipeline, unless they too are resampled. To support this, a resampler
would need to be passed all props that are required downstream, and
``fit_resample`` should return resampled versions of them. Note that these
must be distinct from parameters that affect the resampler's fitting.

> That is, consider the signature ``fit_resample(X, y=None, props=None, sample_weight=None)``.

Author: So if I understand correctly, one could apply a set of sample to drive the resampling and pass another set of weight which will be resampled to later be used by the downstream estimators?

Did you encounter any use case for `sample_weight` in practice? I mean that introducing this parameter might make the sampling API more difficult to grasp and if there is no use case maybe we are better to not allow it.

Note: I am not against including this parameter, this is more by a lack of knowledge regarding the use-case.

Reviewer 4: We may want to do the resampling w/o the `sample_weight`, and yet have `sample_weight` available for the downstream analysis, which is kind of a special case of having different sample weights for different steps.

Reviewer: I think we need to separate the two meanings as long as we support doing learning with weights or similar with a resampler upstream.

Reviewer 2: This is exactly the same thing that cross-validation already does with fit_params, right? So it's not really that new...

Reviewer 2: Btw my argument is that it should be resampled and returned. But that means the signature of ``fit_resample`` is unclear. Also, adding ``props`` would be a backward-incompatible change. We could return a named tuple or dict, though that's not very idiomatic sklearn.

    est = make_pipeline(StandardScaler(), Birch(), SelectKBest(), SVC())
    est = make_pipeline(
        RandomUnderSampler(), StandardScaler(), SelectKBest(), SVC()
    )
    est = make_pipeline(
        NaNRejector(), RandomUnderSampler(), StandardScaler(), SGDClassifer()
    )
    est.fit(X,y, sgdclassifier__sample_weight=my_weight)

Alternative implementation
..........................

Alternatively ``sample_weight`` could be used as a placeholder to
perform resampling. However, the current limitations are:

* ``sample_weight`` is not available for all estimators;
* ``sample_weight`` will implement only simple resampling (only when resampling
  uses original samples);
* ``sample_weight`` needs to be passed and modified within a
  ``Pipeline``, which isn't possible without something like resamplers.

Current implementation
......................

https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/13269

Backward compatibility
----------------------

There is no backward incompatibilities with the current API.

Discussion
----------

* https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/13269

References and Footnotes
------------------------

> .. [1] Each SLEP must either be explicitly labeled as placed in the public

Reviewer 4: fix this?

:Status: Draft
:Type: Standards Track
:Created: created on, in 2019-03-01
:Resolution: <url>

Abstract
--------

We propose a new mixin ``OutlierRejectionMixin`` implementing a
``fit_resample(X, y)`` method. This method will remove samples from
``X`` and ``y`` to get a outlier-free dataset. This method is also
handle in ``Pipeline``.

Detailed description
--------------------

Fitting a machine learning model on an outlier-free dataset can be
beneficial.  Currently, the family of outlier detection algorithms
allows to detect outliers using `estimator.fit_predict(X, y)`. However,
there is no mechanism to remove outliers without any manual step. It
is even impossible when a ``Pipeline`` is used.

We propose the following changes:

* implement an ``OutlierRejectionMixin``;
* this mixin add a method ``fit_resample(X, y)`` removing outliers
  from ``X`` and ``y``;
* ``fit_resample`` should be handled in ``Pipeline``.

Implementation
--------------

API changes are implemented in
https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/13269

Estimator implementation
........................

The new mixin is implemented as::
  

>   class OutlierRejectionMixin:

Reviewer 8: I don't think  that a SLEP should give that level of implementation detail (I find myself wanting to comment on the implementation details, which is not the point), and rather focus on the API, and it's consequences (which may be in the implementation).

    _estimator_type = "outlier_rejector"
    def fit_resample(self, X, y):
        inliers = self.fit_predict(X) == 1
        return safe_mask(X, inliers), safe_mask(y, inliers)

This will be used as follows for the outlier detection algorithms::
  
  class IsolationForest(BaseBagging, OutlierMixin, OutlierRejectionMixin):
      ...
      
One can use the new algorithm with::
  
  from sklearn.ensemble import IsolationForest
  estimator = IsolationForest()
  X_free, y_free = estimator.fit_resample(X, y)

Pipeline implementation
.......................

To handle outlier rejector in ``Pipeline``, we enforce the following:

* an estimator cannot implement both ``fit_resample(X, y)`` and

>   ``fit_transform(X)`` / ``transform(X)``.

Reviewer 8: That's the important point (the crutial one). The SLEP should mention the rational.

* ``fit_predict(X)`` (i.e., clustering methods) should not be called if an
  outlier rejector is in the pipeline.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* We propose that resamplers are only applied during fit time. Specifically, the pipeline will act as follows:
===================== ================================
Method                Resamplers applied               
===================== ================================
``fit``               Yes
``fit_transform``     Yes
``transform``         Yes
``fit_resample``      Yes
``predict``           No
``score``             No
``fit_predict``       not supported 
===================== ================================

```
